So how to check if a number is odd or
even using bitwise operators? we know for even numbers
The LSB is zero and for odd numbers
it is one.
And using bitwise AND operator we can check
whether the LSB is zero or one.
Let us see an example
Let us take the number 10.
We have to check whether the LSB is
one or zero. To check that, we need to create
a bit mask with LSB as one and
all the other bits as zero.
Because we are going to check only the LSB bit
So bit mask will be 0001. Now perform bitwise AND
operation on the number and the bitmask
If the result is one, it is an odd number
else it is an even number. And if we are getting
zero, so we can say it is an even number
Now take another example.
Five. We have to check whether the LSB
is one or zero.
So again bit mask will be 0001. Now perform
bitwise and operation on the number and bitmask
And here we're getting one. So we can say it is an odd number.